README.md, before:

Serverless WarmUp Plugin ♨
=============================
[![Serverless][serverless-badge]](serverless-badge-url)
[![npm version][npm-version-badge]][npm-version-badge-url]
[![npm monthly downloads][npm-downloads-badge]][npm-version-badge-url]
[![Build Status][travis-badge]][travis-badge-url]
[![Coverage Status][coveralls-badge]][coveralls-badge-url]
[![Dependency Status][dev-badge]][dev-badge-url]
[![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup/master/LICENSE)

Keep your lambdas warm during winter.

**Requirements:**
* Serverless *v1.12.x* or higher (Recommended *v1.33.x* or higher because of [this](https://github.com/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup/pull/69)).
* AWS provider

## How it works

WarmUp solves *cold starts* by creating one schedule event lambda that invokes all the service lambdas you select in a configured time interval (default: 5 minutes) or a specific time, forcing your containers to stay alive.

## Setup


### Installation

Install via npm in the root of your Serverless service:

```sh
npm install serverless-plugin-warmup --save-dev
```

Add the plugin to the `plugins` array in your Serverless `serverless.yml`:

```yml
plugins:
  - serverless-plugin-warmup
```

### Global configuration

Add a `warmup.enabled` property to custom to enable/disable the warm up process by default for all the functions

Enable WarmUp in general:

```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: true
```

WarmUp also accepts the boolean as a string so you can use environment variables:
```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: ${env:WARM_UP_ENABLED} # Where WARM_UP_ENABLED is set to 'true'
```

For a specific stage:

```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: production
```

For several stages:

```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: 
      - production
      - staging
```

#### Function-specific configuration

You can override the global `enabled` configuration on any function.

Enable WarmUp for a specific function

```yml
functions:
  hello:
    warmup:
      enabled: true
```

For a specific stage:

```yml
functions:
  hello:
    warmup:
      enabled: production
```

For several stages:

```yml
functions:
  hello:
    warmup:
      enabled:
        - production
        - staging
```

Do not warm-up a function if `enabled` is set to false:
 ```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: true

...

functions:
  hello:
    warmup:
      enabled: false
```

### Other Options

#### Global options

* **folderName** (default `_warmup`)
* **cleanFolder** (default `true`)
* **name** (default `${service}-${stage}-warmup-plugin`)
* **role** (default to role in the provider)
* **tags** (default to serverless default tags)
* **vpc** (default to vpc in provider, can be set to `false` to deploy the warmup function outside of VPC)
* **memorySize** (default `128`)
* **events** (default `- schedule: rate(5 minutes)`)
* **timeout** (default `10` seconds)
* **prewarm** (default `false`)

#### Options that can be overridden per function

* **enabled** (default `false`)
* **payload** (default `{ "source": "serverless-plugin-warmup" }`)
* **payloadRaw** (default `false`)
* **concurrency** (default `1`)

```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: true # Whether to warm up functions by default or not
    folderName: '_warmup' # Name of the folder created for the generated warmup 
    cleanFolder: false
    memorySize: 256
    name: 'make-them-pop'
    role: myCustRole0
    tags:
      Project: foo
      Owner: bar 
    vpc: false
    events:
      - schedule: 'cron(0/5 8-17 ? * MON-FRI *)' # Run WarmUp every 5 minutes Mon-Fri between 8:00am and 5:55pm (UTC)
    timeout: 20
    prewarm: true # Run WarmUp immediately after a deploymentlambda
    payload: 
      source: my-custom-source
      other: 20
    payloadRaw: true # Won't JSON.stringify() the source, may be necessary for Go/AppSync deployments
    concurrency: 5 # Warm up 5 concurrent instances
```

**Options should be tweaked depending on:**
* Number of lambdas to warm up
* Day cold periods
* Desire to avoid cold lambdas after a deployment

**Lambdas invoked by WarmUp will have event source `serverless-plugin-warmup` (unless otherwise specified above):**

```json
{
  "Event": {
    "source": "serverless-plugin-warmup"
  }
}
```

#### Legacy options

Over time some options have been removed form the pluging.
For now, we keep backwards compatibility so they still work.
However, they are listed here only to facilitate upgrading the pluging and we strongly recommend switching to the options defined above as soon as possible.

* **default** Has been renamed to `enabled`
* **schedule** `schedule: rate(5 minutes)` is equivalent to `events: - schedule: rate(5 minutes)`.
* **source** Has been renamed to `payload`
* **sourceRaw** Has been renamed to `payloadRaw`

### Permissions

WarmUp requires some permissions to be able to `invoke` lambdas.

```yaml
custom:
  warmup:
    folderName: '_warmup' # Name of the folder created for the generated warmup 
    cleanFolder: false
    memorySize: 256
    name: 'make-them-pop'
    role:  myCustRole0
    events:
      - schedule: 'cron(0/5 8-17 ? * MON-FRI *)' # Run WarmUp every 5 minutes Mon-Fri between 8:00am and 5:55pm (UTC)
    timeout: 20
    prewarm: true # Run WarmUp immediately after a deployment
    tags:
      Project: foo
      Owner: bar

.....

resources:
  Resources:
    myCustRole0:
      Type: AWS::IAM::Role
      Properties:
        Path: /my/cust/path/
        RoleName: MyCustRole0
        AssumeRolePolicyDocument:
          Version: '2017'
          Statement:
            - Effect: Allow
              Principal:
                Service:
                  - lambda.amazonaws.com
              Action: sts:AssumeRole
        Policies:
          - PolicyName: myPolicyName
            PolicyDocument:
              Version: '2017'
              Statement:
                - Effect: Allow # WarmUp lamda to send logs to CloudWatch
                  Action:
                    - logs:CreateLogGroup
                    - logs:CreateLogStream
                    - logs:PutLogEvents
                  Resource: 
                    - 'Fn::Join':
                      - ':'
                      -
                        - 'arn:aws:logs'
                        - Ref: 'AWS::Region'
                        - Ref: 'AWS::AccountId'
                        - 'log-group:/aws/lambda/*:*:*'
                - Effect: Allow # WarmUp lamda to manage ENIS (only needed if deploying to VPC, https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/vpc.html)
                  Action:
                    - ec2:CreateNetworkInterface
                    - ec2:DescribeNetworkInterfaces
                    - ec2:DetachNetworkInterface
                    - ec2:DeleteNetworkInterface
                  Resource: "*"
                - Effect: 'Allow' # WarmUp lamda to invoke the functions to be warmed
                  Action:
                    - 'lambda:InvokeFunction'
                  Resource:
                  - Fn::Join:
                    - ':'
                    - - arn:aws:lambda
                      - Ref: AWS::Region
                      - Ref: AWS::AccountId
                      - function:${self:service}-${opt:stage, self:provider.stage}-*
```

The permissions can also be added to all lambdas using `iamRoleStatements` under `provider` (see https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/functions/#permissions):

```yaml
provider:
  name: aws
  runtime: nodejs6.10
  iamRoleStatements:
    - Effect: 'Allow'
      Action:
        - 'lambda:InvokeFunction'
      Resource:
      - Fn::Join:
        - ':'
        - - arn:aws:lambda
          - Ref: AWS::Region
          - Ref: AWS::AccountId
          - function:${self:service}-${opt:stage, self:provider.stage}-*
```
If using pre-warm, the deployment user also needs a similar policy so it can run the WarmUp lambda.


#### On the function side

Add an early callback call when the event source is `serverless-plugin-warmup`. You should do this early exit before running your code logic, it will save your execution duration and cost:

```javascript
module.exports.lambdaToWarm = function(event, context, callback) {
  /** Immediate response for WarmUp plugin */
  if (event.source === 'serverless-plugin-warmup') {
    console.log('WarmUp - Lambda is warm!')
    return callback(null, 'Lambda is warm!')
  }

  ... add lambda logic after
}
```
You can also check for the warmup event using the `context` variable. This could be useful if you are handling the raw input and output streams:

```javascript
...

if(context.custom.source === 'serverless-plugin-warmup'){
  console.log('WarmUp - Lambda is warm!')
  return callback(null, 'Lambda is warm!')
}

...
```
If you're using the `concurrency` option you might consider adding a slight delay before returning when warming up to ensure your function doesn't return before all concurrent requests have been started:

```javascript
module.exports.lambdaToWarm = async (event) => {
  if (event.source === 'serverless-plugin-warmup') {
    /** Slightly delayed (25ms) response for WarmUp plugin to ensure concurrent invocation */
    await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 25))
    console.log('WarmUp - Lambda is warm!')
    return
  }

  ... add lambda logic after
}
```
## Deployment

Once everything is configured WarmUp will run on SLS `deploy`.

```sh
serverless deploy
```

## Packaging
WarmUp also runs on SLS `package`.

If you are doing your own [package artifact](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/packaging#artifact) set the `cleanFolder` option to `false` and run
```sh
serverless package
```

This will allow you to extract the `warmup` NodeJS lambda file from the `_warmup` folder and add it in your custom artifact logic.

## Gotchas

If you are deploying to a VPC, you need to use private subnets with a Network Address Translation (NAT) gateway (http://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/vpc.html). WarmUp requires this so it can call the other lambdas but this is applicable to any lambda that needs access to the public internet or to any other AWS service.

## Cost

Lambda pricing [here](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/pricing/). CloudWatch pricing [here](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/). You can use [AWS Lambda Pricing Calculator](https://s3.amazonaws.com/lambda-tools/pricing-calculator.html) to check how much will cost you monthly.

#### Example

Free Tier not included + Default WarmUp options + 10 lambdas to warm, each with `memorySize = 1024` and `duration = 10`:
* WarmUp: runs 8640 times per month = $0.18
* 10 warm lambdas: each invoked 8640 times per month = $14.4
* Total = $14.58

CloudWatch costs are not in this example because they are very low.

## Contribute

Help us making this plugin better and future proof.

* Clone the code
* Install the dependencies with `npm install`
* Create a feature branch `git checkout -b new_feature`
* Lint with standard `npm run lint`

## License

This software is released under the MIT license. See [the license file](LICENSE) for more details.

[serverless-badge]: http://public.serverless.com/badges/v3.svg
[serverless-badge-url]: http://www.serverless.com
[npm-version-badge]: https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg
[npm-version-badge-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless-plugin-warmup
[npm-downloads-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg
[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg
[travis-badge-url]: https://travis-ci.org/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup
[coveralls-badge]: https://coveralls.io/repos/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup/badge.svg?branch=master
[coveralls-badge-url]: https://coveralls.io/r/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup?branch=master
[dev-badge]: https://david-dm.org/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg
[dev-badge-url]: https://david-dm.org/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup

Commit message:

Allow warmup function to be packaged as part of main serverless bundle

README.md, after:

Serverless WarmUp Plugin ♨
=============================
[![Serverless][serverless-badge]](serverless-badge-url)
[![npm version][npm-version-badge]][npm-version-badge-url]
[![npm monthly downloads][npm-downloads-badge]][npm-version-badge-url]
[![Build Status][travis-badge]][travis-badge-url]
[![Coverage Status][coveralls-badge]][coveralls-badge-url]
[![Dependency Status][dev-badge]][dev-badge-url]
[![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup/master/LICENSE)

Keep your lambdas warm during winter.

**Requirements:**
* Serverless *v1.12.x* or higher (Recommended *v1.33.x* or higher because of [this](https://github.com/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup/pull/69)).
* AWS provider

## How it works

WarmUp solves *cold starts* by creating one schedule event lambda that invokes all the service lambdas you select in a configured time interval (default: 5 minutes) or a specific time, forcing your containers to stay alive.

## Setup


### Installation

Install via npm in the root of your Serverless service:

```sh
npm install serverless-plugin-warmup --save-dev
```

Add the plugin to the `plugins` array in your Serverless `serverless.yml`:

```yml
plugins:
  - serverless-plugin-warmup
```

### Global configuration

Add a `warmup.enabled` property to custom to enable/disable the warm up process by default for all the functions

Enable WarmUp in general:

```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: true
```

WarmUp also accepts the boolean as a string so you can use environment variables:
```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: ${env:WARM_UP_ENABLED} # Where WARM_UP_ENABLED is set to 'true'
```

For a specific stage:

```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: production
```

For several stages:

```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled:
      - production
      - staging
```

#### Function-specific configuration

You can override the global `enabled` configuration on any function.

Enable WarmUp for a specific function

```yml
functions:
  hello:
    warmup:
      enabled: true
```

For a specific stage:

```yml
functions:
  hello:
    warmup:
      enabled: production
```

For several stages:

```yml
functions:
  hello:
    warmup:
      enabled:
        - production
        - staging
```

Do not warm-up a function if `enabled` is set to false:
 ```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: true

...

functions:
  hello:
    warmup:
      enabled: false
```

### Other Options

#### Global options

* **folderName** (default `_warmup`)
* **cleanFolder** (default `true`)
* **name** (default `${service}-${stage}-warmup-plugin`)
* **role** (default to role in the provider)
* **tags** (default to serverless default tags)
* **vpc** (default to vpc in provider, can be set to `false` to deploy the warmup function outside of VPC)
* **memorySize** (default `128`)
* **events** (default `- schedule: rate(5 minutes)`)
* **timeout** (default `10` seconds)
* **prewarm** (default `false`)
* **packageIndividually** (default `true`)

#### Options that can be overridden per function

* **enabled** (default `false`)
* **payload** (default `{ "source": "serverless-plugin-warmup" }`)
* **payloadRaw** (default `false`)
* **concurrency** (default `1`)

```yml
custom:
  warmup:
    enabled: true # Whether to warm up functions by default or not
    folderName: '_warmup' # Name of the folder created for the generated warmup
    cleanFolder: false
    memorySize: 256
    name: 'make-them-pop'
    role: myCustRole0
    tags:
      Project: foo
      Owner: bar
    vpc: false
    events:
      - schedule: 'cron(0/5 8-17 ? * MON-FRI *)' # Run WarmUp every 5 minutes Mon-Fri between 8:00am and 5:55pm (UTC)
    timeout: 20
    prewarm: true # Run WarmUp immediately after a deploymentlambda
    packageIndividually: true # Package warmup function individually
    payload:
      source: my-custom-source
      other: 20
    payloadRaw: true # Won't JSON.stringify() the source, may be necessary for Go/AppSync deployments
    concurrency: 5 # Warm up 5 concurrent instances
```

**Options should be tweaked depending on:**
* Number of lambdas to warm up
* Day cold periods
* Desire to avoid cold lambdas after a deployment

**Lambdas invoked by WarmUp will have event source `serverless-plugin-warmup` (unless otherwise specified above):**

```json
{
  "Event": {
    "source": "serverless-plugin-warmup"
  }
}
```

#### Legacy options

Over time some options have been removed form the pluging.
For now, we keep backwards compatibility so they still work.
However, they are listed here only to facilitate upgrading the pluging and we strongly recommend switching to the options defined above as soon as possible.

* **default** Has been renamed to `enabled`
* **schedule** `schedule: rate(5 minutes)` is equivalent to `events: - schedule: rate(5 minutes)`.
* **source** Has been renamed to `payload`
* **sourceRaw** Has been renamed to `payloadRaw`

### Permissions

WarmUp requires some permissions to be able to `invoke` lambdas.

```yaml
custom:
  warmup:
    folderName: '_warmup' # Name of the folder created for the generated warmup
    cleanFolder: false
    memorySize: 256
    name: 'make-them-pop'
    role:  myCustRole0
    events:
      - schedule: 'cron(0/5 8-17 ? * MON-FRI *)' # Run WarmUp every 5 minutes Mon-Fri between 8:00am and 5:55pm (UTC)
    timeout: 20
    prewarm: true # Run WarmUp immediately after a deployment
    tags:
      Project: foo
      Owner: bar

.....

resources:
  Resources:
    myCustRole0:
      Type: AWS::IAM::Role
      Properties:
        Path: /my/cust/path/
        RoleName: MyCustRole0
        AssumeRolePolicyDocument:
          Version: '2017'
          Statement:
            - Effect: Allow
              Principal:
                Service:
                  - lambda.amazonaws.com
              Action: sts:AssumeRole
        Policies:
          - PolicyName: myPolicyName
            PolicyDocument:
              Version: '2017'
              Statement:
                - Effect: Allow # WarmUp lamda to send logs to CloudWatch
                  Action:
                    - logs:CreateLogGroup
                    - logs:CreateLogStream
                    - logs:PutLogEvents
                  Resource:
                    - 'Fn::Join':
                      - ':'
                      -
                        - 'arn:aws:logs'
                        - Ref: 'AWS::Region'
                        - Ref: 'AWS::AccountId'
                        - 'log-group:/aws/lambda/*:*:*'
                - Effect: Allow # WarmUp lamda to manage ENIS (only needed if deploying to VPC, https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/vpc.html)
                  Action:
                    - ec2:CreateNetworkInterface
                    - ec2:DescribeNetworkInterfaces
                    - ec2:DetachNetworkInterface
                    - ec2:DeleteNetworkInterface
                  Resource: "*"
                - Effect: 'Allow' # WarmUp lamda to invoke the functions to be warmed
                  Action:
                    - 'lambda:InvokeFunction'
                  Resource:
                  - Fn::Join:
                    - ':'
                    - - arn:aws:lambda
                      - Ref: AWS::Region
                      - Ref: AWS::AccountId
                      - function:${self:service}-${opt:stage, self:provider.stage}-*
```

The permissions can also be added to all lambdas using `iamRoleStatements` under `provider` (see https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/functions/#permissions):

```yaml
provider:
  name: aws
  runtime: nodejs6.10
  iamRoleStatements:
    - Effect: 'Allow'
      Action:
        - 'lambda:InvokeFunction'
      Resource:
      - Fn::Join:
        - ':'
        - - arn:aws:lambda
          - Ref: AWS::Region
          - Ref: AWS::AccountId
          - function:${self:service}-${opt:stage, self:provider.stage}-*
```
If using pre-warm, the deployment user also needs a similar policy so it can run the WarmUp lambda.


#### On the function side

Add an early callback call when the event source is `serverless-plugin-warmup`. You should do this early exit before running your code logic, it will save your execution duration and cost:

```javascript
module.exports.lambdaToWarm = function(event, context, callback) {
  /** Immediate response for WarmUp plugin */
  if (event.source === 'serverless-plugin-warmup') {
    console.log('WarmUp - Lambda is warm!')
    return callback(null, 'Lambda is warm!')
  }

  ... add lambda logic after
}
```
You can also check for the warmup event using the `context` variable. This could be useful if you are handling the raw input and output streams:

```javascript
...

if(context.custom.source === 'serverless-plugin-warmup'){
  console.log('WarmUp - Lambda is warm!')
  return callback(null, 'Lambda is warm!')
}

...
```
If you're using the `concurrency` option you might consider adding a slight delay before returning when warming up to ensure your function doesn't return before all concurrent requests have been started:

```javascript
module.exports.lambdaToWarm = async (event) => {
  if (event.source === 'serverless-plugin-warmup') {
    /** Slightly delayed (25ms) response for WarmUp plugin to ensure concurrent invocation */
    await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 25))
    console.log('WarmUp - Lambda is warm!')
    return
  }

  ... add lambda logic after
}
```
## Deployment

Once everything is configured WarmUp will run on SLS `deploy`.

```sh
serverless deploy
```

## Packaging
WarmUp also runs on SLS `package`.

If you are doing your own [package artifact](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/packaging#artifact) set the `cleanFolder` option to `false` and run
```sh
serverless package
```

This will allow you to extract the `warmup` NodeJS lambda file from the `_warmup` folder and add it in your custom artifact logic.

## Gotchas

If you are deploying to a VPC, you need to use private subnets with a Network Address Translation (NAT) gateway (http://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/vpc.html). WarmUp requires this so it can call the other lambdas but this is applicable to any lambda that needs access to the public internet or to any other AWS service.

## Cost

Lambda pricing [here](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/pricing/). CloudWatch pricing [here](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/). You can use [AWS Lambda Pricing Calculator](https://s3.amazonaws.com/lambda-tools/pricing-calculator.html) to check how much will cost you monthly.

#### Example

Free Tier not included + Default WarmUp options + 10 lambdas to warm, each with `memorySize = 1024` and `duration = 10`:
* WarmUp: runs 8640 times per month = $0.18
* 10 warm lambdas: each invoked 8640 times per month = $14.4
* Total = $14.58

CloudWatch costs are not in this example because they are very low.

## Contribute

Help us making this plugin better and future proof.

* Clone the code
* Install the dependencies with `npm install`
* Create a feature branch `git checkout -b new_feature`
* Lint with standard `npm run lint`

## License

This software is released under the MIT license. See [the license file](LICENSE) for more details.

[serverless-badge]: http://public.serverless.com/badges/v3.svg
[serverless-badge-url]: http://www.serverless.com
[npm-version-badge]: https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg
[npm-version-badge-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless-plugin-warmup
[npm-downloads-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg
[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg
[travis-badge-url]: https://travis-ci.org/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup
[coveralls-badge]: https://coveralls.io/repos/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup/badge.svg?branch=master
[coveralls-badge-url]: https://coveralls.io/r/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup?branch=master
[dev-badge]: https://david-dm.org/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup.svg
[dev-badge-url]: https://david-dm.org/FidelLimited/serverless-plugin-warmup
